Add content from typeshed/CONTRIBUTING.md (#1882)
python/typing: docs/guides/writing_stubs.rst

It may be instructive to examine `typeshed <https://github.com/python/typeshed/>`__'s
`setup for testing stubs <https://github.com/python/typeshed/blob/main/tests/README.md>`__.

> To suppress type errors in stubs, use `# type: ignore` comments. Refer to the style guide for

Reviewer: Could we make this a link? What style guide is it referring to?

Author: There's a "style guide" section on the page. I added a link to the appropriate sub-section.

> To suppress type errors on stubs, use a `# type: ignore` comment. Refer to the style guide for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To suppress type errors in stubs, use `# type: ignore` comments. Refer to the style guide for
```

Reviewer 2: Grammar nit.

> To suppress type errors in stubs, use `# type: ignore` comments. Refer to the :ref:`type-checker-error-suppression` section of the style guide for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To suppress type errors in stubs, use ``# type: ignore`` comments. Refer to the :ref:`type-checker-error-suppression` section of the style guide for
```

This section documents best practices on what elements to include or
leave out of stub files.

> Modules excluded fom stubs

Author: I moved this down cuz it felt weird for the "stub content" section to start with "what you shouldn't include"

Incomplete Stubs
----------------

When writing new stubs, it is not necessary to fully annotate all arguments,
return types, and fields. Some items may be left unannotated or

> annotated with `_typeshed.Incomplete` (`documentation <https://github.com/python/typeshed/blob/main/stdlib/_typeshed/README.md>`_).::

Reviewer 2: Could you fix the formatting? There's a stray period in front of the colon, and some terms (like `_typeshed.Incomplete` in this line) are surrounded with single backticks when it should be double backticks.

Reviewer 2: Double ticks are needed to make things render as code. Jelle said in another comment that single ticks are the "default role", which I didn't know - I just checked the file preview.

    def bar(x: str, y, *, z=...): ...

``Any`` vs. ``Incomplete``
--------------------------

> While ``Incomplete`` is a type alias of ``Any``, they serve difference purposes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While ``Incomplete`` is a type alias of ``Any``, they serve different purposes:
```

        ...
    def to_int3(x: str) -> int: pass

Avoid invariant collection types (`list`, `dict`) for function parameters,
in favor of covariant types like `Mapping` or `Sequence`.

> Avoid union return types. See https://github.com/python/mypy/issues/1693

Reviewer 2: Probably for a future PR, but it would be nice if the content of https://github.com/python/mypy/issues/1693 and https://github.com/python/mypy/issues/7214 below could be copied into the guides. Having pieces of general typing advice hidden away in mypy issues feels sort of odd.

should be prefixed with an underscore to make it obvious to the reader
they are not part of the stubbed API.

A few guidelines for protocol names below. In cases that don't fall
into any of those categories, use your best judgement.

* Use plain names for protocols that represent a clear concept
  (e.g. `Iterator`, `Container`).
* Use `SupportsX` for protocols that provide callable methods (e.g.
  `SupportsInt`, `SupportsRead`, `SupportsReadSeek`).
* Use `HasX` for protocols that have readable and/or writable attributes
  or getter/setter methods (e.g. `HasItems`, `HasFileno`).

`@deprecated`
-------------

The `@typing_extensions.deprecated` decorator (`@warnings.deprecated`
since Python 3.13) can be used to mark deprecated functionality; see
[PEP 702](https://peps.python.org/pep-0702/).

A few guidelines for how to use it:

* In the standard library, apply the decorator only in Python versions
  where an appropriate replacement for the deprecated functionality
  exists. If in doubt, apply the decorator only on versions where the
  functionality has been explicitly deprecated, either through runtime
  warnings or in the documentation. Use `if sys.version_info` checks to

>   apply the decorator only to some versions.

Reviewer 2: This seems typeshed-specific - no one else is writing stubs for the standard library (I hope =P).

Author: deleted

* Keep the deprecation message concise, but try to mention the projected
  version when the functionality is to be removed, and a suggested
  replacement.

> Imports

Reviewer 2: These two sections duplicate https://typing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/spec/distributing.html#import-conventions and https://typing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/spec/distributing.html#syntax, respectively. I feel like they could just be deleted.

    class OtherClass: ...

Use variable annotations instead of type comments, even for stubs that target
older versions of Python.

Platform-dependent APIs
-----------------------

> Use platform checks like `if sys.platform == 'win32'` to denote platform-dependent APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use platform checks like ``if sys.platform == 'win32'`` to denote platform-dependent APIs.
```
I think we have a spec section that describes the allowed syntax for these; we could link to it here.

See https://github.com/python/mypy/issues/7214 for more details.

`__enter__` methods and other methods that return instances of the
current class should be annotated with `typing_extensions.Self`
([example](https://github.com/python/typeshed/blob/3581846/stdlib/contextlib.pyi#L151)).

Naming
------

Type variables and aliases you introduce purely for legibility reasons
should be prefixed with an underscore to make it obvious to the reader
they are not part of the stubbed API.

A few guidelines for protocol names below. In cases that don't fall
into any of those categories, use your best judgement.

* Use plain names for protocols that represent a clear concept
  (e.g. `Iterator`, `Container`).
* Use `SupportsX` for protocols that provide callable methods (e.g.
  `SupportsInt`, `SupportsRead`, `SupportsReadSeek`).
* Use `HasX` for protocols that have readable and/or writable attributes
  or getter/setter methods (e.g. `HasItems`, `HasFileno`).

Type Checker Error Suppression formats
--------------------------------------

* Use mypy error codes for mypy-specific `# type: ignore` annotations, e.g. `# type: ignore[override]` for Liskov Substitution Principle violations.

> * Use pyright error codes for pyright-specific suppressions, e.g. `# pyright: ignore[reportGeneralTypeIssues]`. Pyright is configured to discard `# type: ignore` annotations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use pyright error codes for pyright-specific suppressions, e.g. `# pyright: ignore[reportGeneralTypeIssues]`.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest deleting the sentence about how pyright is configured in typeshed.

Built-in Generics
-----------------

> :pep:`585` built-in generics (such as `list`, `dict`, `tuple`, `set`) are supported and should be used instead

Reviewer: Use double backticks here too

  def foo(x: int | str) -> int | None: ...  # recommended
  def foo(x: Union[int, str]) -> Optional[int]: ...  # ok

.. _using-any:

> Using `Any` and `object`

Reviewer: Also need a bunch more double backticks here.

(Single backticks in RST use the "default role" which we should avoid. We want linting against it.)

`object` instead.

When using `Any`, document the reason for using it in a comment. Ideally,
document what types could be used.

The `Any` Trick
-----------------

In cases where a function or method can return ``None``, but where forcing the
user to explicitly check for ``None`` can be detrimental, use
``_typeshed.MaybeNone`` (an alias to ``Any``), instead of ``None``.

Consider the following (simplified) signature of ``re.Match[str].group``::

    class Match:
        def group(self, group: str | int, /) -> str | MaybeNone: ...

This avoid forcing the user to check for ``None``::

    match = re.fullmatch(r"\d+_(.*)", some_string)
    assert match is not None
    name_group = match.group(1)  # The user knows that this will never be None
    return name_group.uper()  # This typo will be flagged by the type checker

In this case, the user of ``match.group()`` must be prepared to handle a ``str``,
but type checkers are happy with ``if name_group is None`` checks, because we're
saying it can also be something else than an ``str``.

This is sometimes called "the Any trick".

Context Managers
----------------

When adding type annotations for context manager classes, annotate

> the return type of `__exit__` as bool only if the context manager

Reviewer: Lots more double backticks needed

sometimes suppresses exceptions -- if it sometimes returns `True`
at runtime. If the context manager never suppresses exceptions,
have the return type be either `None` or `bool | None`. If you
are not sure whether exceptions are suppressed or not or if the
context manager is meant to be subclassed, pick `bool | None`.
See https://github.com/python/mypy/issues/7214 for more details.

`__enter__` methods and other methods that return instances of the

> current class should be annotated with `typing_extensions.Self`

Reviewer 3: Here "current class" could be more precise. `Self` should be used if a method returns `self` or `cls(...)`. But if a method in class `A` has `return A()`, `Self` shouldn't be used.

  (e.g. `Iterator`, `Container`).
* Use `SupportsX` for protocols that provide callable methods (e.g.
  `SupportsInt`, `SupportsRead`, `SupportsReadSeek`).
* Use `HasX` for protocols that have readable and/or writable attributes
  or getter/setter methods (e.g. `HasItems`, `HasFileno`).

.. _type-checker-error-suppression:

Type Checker Error Suppression Formats
--------------------------------------

* Use mypy error codes for mypy-specific `# type: ignore` annotations, e.g. `# type: ignore[override]` for Liskov Substitution Principle violations.
* Use pyright error codes for pyright-specific suppressions, e.g. `# pyright: ignore[reportGeneralTypeIssues]`.
* If you need both on the same line, mypy's annotation needs to go first, e.g. `# type: ignore[override]  # pyright: ignore[reportGeneralTypeIssues]`.

`@deprecated`
-------------

The `@typing_extensions.deprecated` decorator (`@warnings.deprecated`
since Python 3.13) can be used to mark deprecated functionality; see
[PEP 702](https://peps.python.org/pep-0702/).

Keep the deprecation message concise, but try to mention the projected
version when the functionality is to be removed, and a suggested

> replacement.

Reviewer 3: Should we say that if a deprecated feature is still very widely used and was deprecated only recently, it may be best to wait before adding `@deprecated`?

Reviewer: I don't think so. If the feature is still in wide use, that's an argument against deprecating the feature, but if the runtime code decides to deprecate something, the stubs should communicate that fact.
